    Alexander Quine

alxndr@gmail.com
(650) 488-7163
eleven-twelve.net
linkedin.com/in/alxndr


    Summary

I am a front-end generalist web developer most comfortable in open-source languages. I'm conversant and literate in Mandarin Chinese and always interested in learning more languages (both human and computer). I am one of the (apparently) few people in this world who love regular expressions. My hobbies include cycling, word games, and photography.


    Objective

I want to continue using and learning Ruby on Rails in a test-driven environment. I value organized code and enjoy refactoring existing code as much as writing new features, so it's important to me to work on a team that respects code organization and cleanliness. After spending three months pair programming, I appreciate its usefulness in a team that can embrace it. I love the San Francisco Bay Area and while working remotely is not out of the question, it is much easier to communicate when people are face-to-face.


    Skills

Programming languages, frameworks, databases:

*  Most comfortable in Ruby on Rails, Backbone.js, and jQuery
*  Comfortable with Javascript, Ruby, Python, PHP, Perl, bash
*  Beginning to learn Objective-C
*  Familiar with Java and C++
*  Most comfortable with MySQL and PostgreSQL
*  Some familiarity with MongoDB
*  I particularly enjoy creating and dissecting regular expressions

General web development

*  Proficient in HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, Javascript
*  Test-driven development using Rspec and Jasmine
*  Implementing whole-site redesigns and new features and interactivity based on low-fidelity mockups and conversations with designers and site users
*  Collaborating on user experience improvements and concerns with designers during planning stages of site design and features
*  Using version control systems to collaborate with other developers
*  Installing, customizing, and maintaining WordPress and MediaWiki
*  Strong attention to W3C standards, browser independence, and user accessibility


    Related Experience

Front End Developer: Current TV (http://www.current.com/), San Francisco, California
August 2011 – present
Agile test-driven Ruby on Rails development using RSpec, Jasmine, Backbone, jQuery, Pivotal Tracker. Helped create D3.js-based visualizations of data on interactive maps and graphs in SVG. Maintenance of and custom feature development on WordPress-based sites (1–2m visitors per month). Code versioning using both Git and Subversion.

Developer: Wolfgang's Vault (http://www.wolfgangsvault.com/), San Francisco, California
October 2007 – July 2011
Main coder and administrator for several websites: two WordPress (PHP5) sites (IIS on Windows) with custom themes and plugins (40–120k visitors per month); two legacy HTML::Mason (Perl) frontends to one custom Python backend site (Apache on Linux; 10–20k visitors per month); three internal-facing MediaWiki (PHP) sites (Apache on Linux). Implemented complete redesigns and new features from low-fidelity mockups for these sites. Implemented new features, bug fixes, and design-related changes to .NET-based sites (1–2m visitors per month). Advised CEO and Chief of Marketing on SEO-related problems and goals, and implemented solutions when appropriate. Used a revision control system (SVN) to collaborate with other developers. Constructed content for and managed the sending (both in-house and via third party) of emails to customer lists (hundreds of thousands) multiple times per week. Served as technical liason to third-party email delivery service (MailChimp). Administration and troubleshooting for company computers.

Webmaster: Oberlin College Library System (http://www.oberlin.edu/library/), Oberlin, Ohio
November 2002 – August 2003; September 2005 – June 2007
Maintained and updated custom database-backed web applications and static-content pages as needed for the four libraries on campus. Maintained and debugged Ajax applications with MySQL backends and CGI-based systems. Implemented the redesign of the Library System's main page. Completed a virtual tour project started by the prior webmaster.

Developer; Administrator; Founder: Oberwiki — The Oberlin Wiki (http://oberwiki.net/)
August 2004 – present
Deployed and maintained installation of MediaWiki (PHP5). Extended functionality by creating custom plugins and enabling third-party extensions to add features, increase usability, and prevent automated spam. Built custom theme designed by a user. Oberwiki is one of the first and still one of the largest wikis related to higher education, and has seen 5–10k visitors per month since 2009. A more detailed log of changes is available (http://oberwiki.net/Oberwiki:Changes).

Webmaster of personal domains since 2001


    Education

Oberlin College, Oberlin, Ohio
Graduated May 2007.
BA, East Asian Studies, concentration in Chinese language and literature. Additional coursework in photography and computer science.


    Fun Facts

*  My family is not named after self-replicating code; the code is named after my family.
*  I have been typing in Dvorak for about ten years.
*  My editor preferences are vim, TextMate, and RubyMine. PN2 offered a better development experience than any other Windows GUI available when I was looking (and it has a great regex engine).
*  I'm a lover of human languages as well: I'm conversant and literate in Mandarin Chinese, was fluent in French in high school and could scrape by in Italian, can transliterate Cyrillic and some Arabic. My "to tackle next" list is Arabic, Swahili, and Lojban.
*  I'm an avid photographer, both film and digital; particularly fond of long (multi-hour) exposures and piecing together wide panoramas.
*  Etymology, semantics, and the serial comma are important to me.


    References and letters of recommendation

Available on request


-------------

Updated January 2013

